== Welcome to DYNASTY

	  DYNASTY is a simple web application to generate models of power profiles
	  for major, durable, traditional, independent historical dynasties. 
	  It utilizes the Efficiency Discounted Exponential Growth Method (EDEG).
	  Parameters are the beginning and end years of the dynasty, and the growth rate.
	  DYNASTY is written using Ruby on Rails.

== Getting Started

	  1. You will need to install these files on a computer that can run Linux or Unix.
	  Installing then in the home directory works well for the author. Just copy over the
	  whole directly.  The files and directories should not be rearranged but must be kept 
	  in their original directories.  Directories and files should not be renamed unless 
	  you are doing your own development and are familiar with Rails.

	  2. Using your command line tool, you should install the required gems (software 
	  components written in Ruby) by going to the root directory for DYNASTY and type:

	  bundle install

	  3. Wait until bundle install is completed. It may take awhile.  Then set up the DYNASTY 
	  database by typing:

	  rake db:migrate
	  
	  4. Activate the Rails server by typing:

	  rails s

	  5. Open your web browser and go to the following URL to locally see and use DYNASTY:

	  http://localhost:3000/simple 

	  6. Other users on your network might be able to see and use the application by using their
	  browser to go to the URL for your computer (where DYNASTY is hosted) appended with ":3000"
	  without the quotes. Whether this will work and for whom depends upon your network set-up. 
	  Although DYNASTY is not intended to be a major web app, it might not be useful for individual
	  computer labs or research clusters.


== Instructions for Use

	  To start, enter the beginning and end dates and growth rate.  Use a minus sign to indicate
	  BC dates.  Typical dynasties last about 300 years.  Much longer dynasties might produce 
	  incorrect results and are not good candidates for the assumptions of this simulation.
	  For example, the Roman Empire lasted in some continuous form from about 0 AD to 1453 AD.
	  Arguably, though, such long-lived regimes should be modeled as a series of shorter
	  dynasties despite legal continuity.

	  DYNASTY does not presently contain a database and saves no data.  Therefore, if you desire
	  to save your simulation results, you should print them out (to paper or PDF) and/or copy
	  and paste the results into a spreadsheet, etc.  The simulation provides both a results 
	  table and a simple graphical output.


== About
	  DYNASTY is written using Ruby 1.9.2 with Rails 3.1.0. It uses Blueprint CSS templates.
	  Developed by Mark Ciotola. See contact information at bottom of page.</P>
	  
== Copyright Notice

	  DYNASTY is subject to the GNU License.

